{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red5\green61\blue204;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c33896\c83855;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25660\viewh19540\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Brainstorming Ideas for NSF CyberTraining\
\
TRACE:  Training for Research using the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure Eco-system\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Curriculum development\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}What can we embed in our curriculum that will remain?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}How can what we develop be shared with others?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Outreach to high schoolers\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Projects with industry or national labs\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Argonne\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Fermilab\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}HAVI\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}AllState\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Working with high performance computing like XSEDE and those at the national labs\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}A pipeline from high school through post-doc\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}We already have a summer camp through the Admissions Office\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Enriching graduate theses with projects outside the silos, e.g., my PhD student worked at Fermilab for several months\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Different modes of learning\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Previous awards:\
https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/advancedSearchResult?WT.si_n=ClickedAbstractsRecentAwards&WT.si_x=1&WT.si_cs=1&WT.z_pims_id=505342&ProgEleCode=044Y&BooleanElement=Any&BooleanRef=Any&ActiveAwards=true&#results\
\
Questions about CyberTraining\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Any comments or suggestions after reading the draft summary?  \cf2 The proposal needs more focus.  A strong case must be made for what we plan to do.  Mention in the summary that we spoke to Sushil Prasad.  Carefully study the proposal-specific review criteria.  Note that some changes to the solicitation have been made since last year.  Look at awards made last year.  Focus on strengths.  We need to show our track record but also that we are making a quantum jump from what we do now.  Look at the other participating programs.  What is done should be adoptable.\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}We are mainly computational scientists (academics) wishing to mentor other computational scientists (students and junior academics).  Does that fit the CI Contributors track?  \cf2 Could be Contributors or Users, depending on our emphasis.  \cf0 Where do we indicate the track that we align with?  \cf2 See the solicitation\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Is outreach to high school students of interest?  \cf2 Yes if we make a case.\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Given the "research" focus, do industrial projects need to be research oriented or can they be used to solidify skills that would strengthen research down the road.  \cf2 Industry projects are acceptable, but we need to be clear that we are not doing job training, but training for research.\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Does the project need to encompass all science and engineering or is some broad spectrum of science enough?  \cf2 We do not need to cover all areas.\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Are computational finance and computational social science of interest or not?  \cf2 Not much interest since they are not funding.\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Computational and data science has a simulation side and a data-driven side.  Is there a preference for one or the other, or a preference for both?  \cf2 It is up to what we want to do, but look at BD-Spokes program.\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}As I understand, the number of co-PI is <=4.  Should other faculty involved be listed as senior personnel?  \cf2 Yes.  \cf0 Should external advisors write a letter of collaboration?  \cf2 Definitely, and closely follow the format listed in the solicitation.  Collaborations must be listed in the body and the facilities.\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}How do we have potentially funded \'93letters of collaboration\'94 without \'93voluntary cost-sharing"?  \cf2 See above.\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}What is acceptable as funding requests? (encouraged, okay in moderation, discouraged, not allowed)  \cf2 All are possible, but must be carefully justified.  The thrust of the project will determine where the funding goes.\cf0 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Stipends/tuition for students\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Salary for postdocs\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Salary for faculty to develop curricula\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Salary for faculty to manage project\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Support for travel to attend conferences\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Support for travel to PI meetings (answer: mandatory)\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Support for organizing/hosting conferences and tutorials\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Hardware \cf2 Only if really necessary\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li711\fi-712\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Which of these is \'93participant support\'94?  All but travel?  \cf2 Put as much as possible in participant support because these costs do not incur overhead.  E.g., trainee travel can be participant support, but not PI travel to conferences.\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}What is meant by \'93cross-training\'94  e.g., p. 7 paragraph 1 of the solicitation?  \cf2 Someone learning something outside their domain.\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
To what extent is all of MPS committed to this program (versus just physics).  In particular, is Mathematical Sciences interested?  \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 All of MPS\cf0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}When is a good suggested start date given the time required for decision? Is fall of this year too soon?  \cf2 8-9 months after submission\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
}